# Getting Started Downloading Government Data and Archiving with DataLumos

## Introduction
This guide is intended to provide users with an overview of how to begin efforts to save government data resources and archive them with [DataLumos](www.datalumos.org).

## Search for the Data
When starting out in your effort to preserve government data, the first step is to search for the data. Ask yourself questions like these:
1. What datasets am I interested in? Is there a specific topic, or are you just interested in ensuring that government data? If it's the latter, you can [contact DataLumos](https://www.datalumos.org/datalumos/contact) for ideas on data which may be of interest.
2. Where does the dataset currently exist? Is it publicly available on a government website?
3. Is it already archived somewhere? When you search for it online, do you find sites other than original source? Is that site dependable to preserve the data in the long-term? Is it already archived at DataLumos ([search DataLumos's current holdings to find out](https://www.datalumos.org/datalumos/search/studies)).

## Download the Data from the Government Source
Once you've identified a dataset and how to access it from a government website, it's time to begin the download. Here are some tips to make the most your downloading and archiving experience as efficient and effective as possible.
- If possible, download the data and upload them to DataLumos in a single session. This will allow you to pull links, metadata, and other information directly from the source into the deposit interface.
- Try to find data files which have the largest geographic coverage (national coverage is better than state- or MSA-level), the smallest geographic unit (county is better than state; Census block is better than county), and the most data elements possible. Often this will be in the form of CSV files; trying to identify links on websites which lead directly to datafiles (rather than data generated by a user interface) is a good method of obtaining the optimal files.
- Find and download as much documentation associated with the data as possible. Codebooks, reports, user guides, and other supplemental documentation are as important for a future user's analysis of the data as the datasets themselves. Double-check the websites as documentation may be found under a different tab or link than the data.

## Go to [datalumos.org](www.datalumos.org)

